---
layout: page
title: About
tags: about
---

# About  
---

<br/>
In the world of technology, there are many people who enjoy tinkering with their own personal systems and software, often referred to as "homelab hobbyists". These individuals are passionate about maintaining their own infrastructure, often using open source software, and using it to learn and experiment with new technologies. One such homelab hobbyist is a junior Linux system administrator named Shashank, who maintains a variety of self-hosted software.

Shashank has always had a fascination with technology, especially when it comes to building and maintaining his own systems. He first started experimenting with Linux in graduation, and has been hooked ever since. While completing a degree in Computational Biology, he did some linux assistance based work as a junior Linux system administrator, where he worked for 6 months.

In his spare time, Shashank enjoys building and maintaining his own homelab, where he runs a variety of self-hosted software. His lab is made up of several old servers that he's acquired over the years, which he's repurposed for his own personal use. His homelab serves as a testing ground for new technologies, and allows him to experiment with software that he wouldn't otherwise have access to.

One of the main pieces of software that Shashank maintains is a self-hosted Nextloud, Bitwarden and a Git server. This allows him to store his code repositories on his own server, rather than relying on third-party services. He also maintains a self-hosted file sharing service, which he uses to share files with his friends and family. Sam likes having control over his own data, and having the ability to manage it himself.

In addition to these services, Shashank also maintains a [gitbook](https://docs.shellshock.lol/notes) wiki, which he uses as a personal knowledge base. He's populated the wiki with information about various technologies that he's learned about, as well as documentation for his own homelab. He's found that having a centralized repository for information has been incredibly useful, especially when it comes to troubleshooting and problem-solving.

Shashank also runs a variety of virtual machines on his servers, which he uses for testing and experimentation. He's set up virtual machines for a variety of purposes, including testing new software, experimenting with network configurations, and even running his own personal Minecraft server (not anymore). Having the ability to spin up and tear down virtual machines quickly and easily has been a valuable skill for Shashank to have, both in his personal and professional life.

While maintaining a homelab can be a lot of work, Shashank finds it to be a rewarding hobby. He enjoys the challenge of building and maintaining his own infrastructure, and the satisfaction of knowing that he's in control of his own data. Plus, it's a great way for him to continue learning about new technologies, and to experiment with different configurations and setups.

As a junior Linux system administrator, Shashank's homelab hobby has also been beneficial for his career. The skills and knowledge that he's gained through maintaining his own infrastructure have been transferable to his job, allowing him to take on more complex tasks and projects. Plus, his experience with self-hosted software has given him a unique perspective on the importance of security and data privacy, which he's been able to bring to his professional work.

In conclusion, homelab hobbyists like Shashank are an important part of the technology community. They're passionate about building and maintaining their own infrastructure, and using it to learn and experiment with new technologies. Sam's experience as a junior Linux system administrator has allowed him to take his hobby to the next level, and has provided him with valuable skills and knowledge that he can use in his personal and professional life.  
  
  
  
